in this video we will start to talk
about a new version of linear regression
that is more powerful one that works
with multiple variables or with multiple
features here's what I mean in the
original version of linear regression
that we developed we had a single
feature X the size of the house and we
wanted to use that to predict Y the
price of the house and this was our form
of our hypothesis but now imagine what
if we had not only the size of the house
as a feature or as a variable with which
to try to predict the price but that we
also knew the number of bedrooms the
number of house and the age of the home
and years it seems like this would give
us a lot more information with which to
predict the price to introduce a little
bit of notation and we sort of started
to talk about this earlier I'm going to
use the variables X subscript 1 X
subscript 2 and so on to denote my in
this case for features and I'm going to
continue to use Y to denote the variable
the output variable price that we're
trying to predict let's introduce a
little bit more notation now that we
have four features I'm going to use
lowercase n to denote the number of
features so in this example we have N
equals four because we have you know one
two three four features and n is
different from our earlier notation
where we were using M to denote the
number of examples so if you have 47
rows M is the number of rows in this
table or the number of training examples
so I'm also going to use X superscript I
to denote the input features of the I
training example as a compute example
let's say x2 is going to be a vector of
the features for my second training
example and so x2 here is going to be a
vector
1 4 1 6 3 2 40 since those are my 4
features that have to try to predict the
price of the second house so in this
notation the superscript the superscript
2 here
that's an index into my training set
right this is not X to the power of 2
instead this is you know an index that
says look at the second row of this
table this refers to my second training
example with this notation x2 is a 4
dimensional vector in fact more
generally this is an N dimensional
feature vector with this notation x2 is
now a vector and so I'm going to use
also X I subscript J to denote the value
of the J feature number J in the I've
training example so concretely x2
subscript 3 let's say we refer to
feature number 3 in this vector which is
equal to 2 right and those are three
over there just to fix my handwriting so
x2 subscript 3 is going to be equal to 2
now that we have multiple features let's
talk about what the form of our
hypothesis should be previously this was
the form of our hypothesis where X was
our single feature but now that we have
multiple features we aren't going to use
this simple representation anymore
instead our form of the hypothesis in
linear regression is going to be this
going to be theta 0 plus theta 1 x1 plus
theta 2 x2 plus theta 3 x3 plus theta 4
x4 and if we have n features then rather
than summing up over all four features
we would have a sum over our n features
concretely for a particular setting of
our parameters we may have H of x equals
80 plus 0.1 x1 plus 0.01 x2 plus 3x
3 - 2 X 4 this will be one example of
hypothesis and you remember our
hypothesis is trying to predict the
price of the house in thousands of
dollars - saying that you know the base
price of houses maybe on 80 thousand
plus another 0.1 so that's an extra 100
dollars per square feet you know plus
the price goes up a little bit for each
additional floor that the house has so
it's X 2 s number of floors and it goes
out further for each additional bedroom
the house has because X 3 was the number
of bedrooms and the price goes down a
little bit which for each additional age
of the house with with each additional
year of the age of the house here's the
form of our hypothesis we written on the
slide and what I'm going to do is
introduce a little bit of notation to
simplify this equation for convenience
of notation let me define x subscript 0
to be equal to 1 concretely this means
that for every example I I have a
feature vector X superscript I and X
superscript I subscript 0 is going to be
equal to 1 you can think of this as
defining an additional 0 feature so
whereas previously I had n features each
as X 1 X 2 through xn I'm now defining
an additional so that 0 feature vector
that always takes on the value of 1 so
now my feature vector X becomes this n
plus 1 dimensional vector that is 0
index so this is now a n plus 1
dimensional feature vector but I'm going
to index it from 0 and I'm also going to
think of my parameters as a vector so my
parameters here right that would be a
state of 0 theta 1 theta 2 and so on up
to theta n I'm going to gather them up
into a parameter vector written theta 0
theta 1 theta 2 and so on down to theta
n this is another zero index vectors of
index on
zero that is another n plus one
dimensional vector so my hypothesis can
now be written theta zero X zero plus
theta 1 X 1 plus dot dot dot up to theta
n xn and this equation is the same as
this one on top because you know X 0 is
equal to 1 and the neat thing is I can
now take this form of the hypothesis and
write this as theta transpose X depend
on how familiar you are with inner
products of vectors if you write out
what theta transpose X is what theta
transpose X is is there's a theta 0
theta 1 up to theta n so this thing here
is Theta transpose and this is actually
a n plus 1 by 1 matrix it's also called
a row vector and we take that 2 and
multiply it with the vector X which is X
0 X 1 and so on down to X N and so the
inner product that is Theta transpose X
is just equal to this this gives us a
convenient way to write the form of the
hypothesis as just the inner product
between our parameter vector theta and
our feature vector X and it is this
little bit of notation this little extra
bit of notational convention that let us
write this in this compact form so
that's the form of our hypothesis when
we have multiple features and just to
give this another name this is also
called multivariate linear regression
and deter multivariate is just maybe a
fancy term for saying that we have
multiple features or multiple variables
with which to try to predict the value y